The Indian Youth Congress is the youth wing of the Indian National Congress party. As of 2006, the Indian Youth Congress has over 245,00,000 members across India, the largest democratic youth organisation in the world.

The Indian Youth Congress was a department of the Indian National Congress from the period just after the Partition of India in 1947 until the late 1960s. While prime minister, Indira Gandhi gave the Youth Congress a new dimension by establishing it as a frontal organisation of the Congress Party, with the objective of doing social work and arguing against right-wing parties. Priya Ranjan Dasmunsi was the first elected governor of the Indian Youth Congress; he later became Minister of Information and Broadcasting and Parliamentary affairs in the Indian cabinet. Narayan Dutt Tiwari was the first President.

During the 1970s, under the leadership of Sanjay Gandhi, the Youth Congress undertook activities such as tree plantation, family planning, and fought against domestic violence and dowry deaths. After the death of Sanjay Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi took over in charge of the Youth Congress. After he became prime minister in 1984, Rajiv Gandhi reduced the voting age to 18. Rahul Gandhi was appointed a general secretary of the All India Congress Committee on 24 September 2007 and was given charge of the Indian Youth Congress[1] along with the National Students Union of India.[2]

The Indian Youth Congress has its headquarters in New Delhi, and is presently headed by Rajiv Satav. There are 29 office bearers at the national level, followed by the state, district and block level. The Indian Youth Congress has a unit in all 18900 blocks of the country.

UTI Scam Rally protest

In 2001, several Youth Congress workers held Lalkar Rally around Parliament of India to protest against UTI Scam under National Democratic Alliance government and asked for resignation of then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.[3][4][5]
Protest against violent attacks

In 2011, 2,500 Youth Congress activists rallied and protested in Calcutta against the violent attacks on its supporters by the All India Trinamool Congress party.
India-Pakistan border protest for Indian soldiers

On January 14, 2013 more than hundred Youth Congress activists staged protests across India against Pakistan and its army outside the old customs gate at the Attari border over the killing of two Indian soldiers by Pakistani forces.