Democracy is the buzz word for our political system. But is it really so? Is it democracy that a nation where a majority of population is below 40 elects a majority of people above 60 to power? Are we really satisfied with the way our country is being governed?

The country desperately needs some young leaders who personify energy, enthusiasm, morality, and diligence. No doubt we have progressed a lot in the last 62 years but the development pace would have been completely different had some young torchbearers led this process of development

At the time of independence, Gandhi called upon the youth to participate actively in the freedom movement. Young leaders likes Nehru came to his reckoning and led the movement. But this is not the case now

There can be two reasons for this deplorable scene of Indian politics. One may be that the youth today are not interested in actively participating in the political field. They are content with what they are doing and how the country is being governed. But this reason seems to hold no ground seeing the discontent shown by the youngsters towards cases like reservation, Jessica lal murder case etc.

Second reason may be that young people are not given opportunities to prove themselves claiming that they are not equipped with experience to participate actively in the governance of the country. This reason seems to be more logical seeing the monopoly of old leaders in almost all the major political parties of the country. 

As for the youth of our country, they can contribute in more ways than just contesting elections. Much can be done in areas like educating people, raising awareness about various social ills, and many other areas.

Politics is science to manage the country or state. Youth is young blood of nation and active worker of nation. So, it is very necessary and demand of nation that he must take all the responsibility for managing whole country. Without entering in politics, he can not do any welfare activity at large scale because, after getting fund he can do any thing but who will give to him. But, If youth joins politics and make his own Govt. with help of democratic voting system. He can become prime minister of country after this he can make the India as the dream land of Swami Vivekananda. Where there is no corruption, where there is no violence, where there is no black marketing, where there is no cheating, fraud or scam. But where there is only love, where there is only honesty, where there is only co-operation and co-ordination. So, Youth should join politics for improving it . Because without improving or honesty in politics, there is no possibility of development of India. Some body criticize with giving arguing that youth can create violence with his hot blood , if we allow him to enter in politics but all of this We can not overlooked the role of youth in politics . But , I am against unrational youth who want to earn money by selling the country .
These days , I need youth like Shri Ram Chandra and Shri Krishna . They were the king of India means today prime minister and still whole India loves him as God . We need not politician like Ravan and Kans who have no respect for women .
In India , I am seeing such youth who can take the burden of all social and economic problems by becoming Young Prime minister . But problem is that who brings them in front . If Indian people want to see young India , then they should think the above role of youth in politics and give them support by their Valuable Votes .
